# QUALIFLEX based ranking system by using Interval Valued Hesitant Fuzzy Set and its application to rank the Diabetic patients

### Research Paper: http://doi.org/10.1109/ICCCIS51004.2021.9397179

## ABSTRACT
India has a high prevalence of Diabetes Mellitus and the numbers are increasing day by day at an alarming rate. According to Diabetes Care report prediction of Diabetes will be doubled globally from 2000 to 2030 with a maximum rate in India. It is reported that by 2030 diabetes mellitus may afflict up to 79.4 million people in India. Indians are becoming more prone to diabetes because of unhealthy living style and diet, also due to rapid migration to metropolitan cities for employment. In today's generation, it is required to take a proper management and right decision according to our current lifestyle. Generally, it is seen the health experts are most of the time hesitate to diagnose a Diabetic patient because Diabetes is a chronically disease, it depends on various kind of imprecise lifestyle factors. Interval-valued Hesitant fuzzy set(IVHFS) is the best mathematical tool for management and taking the right decisions for such kind of imprecise data. In this study, we have developed a ranking system based on QUALIFLEX (i.e., QUALItative FLEXible) by using IVHFS and as a case study, this ranking system is applied on Diabetic Patients according to their various imprecise category which is collected from our near health center. The output result is verified by the various medical experts in this field. This system is useful for developing a software which will be helpful for the rural areas patients where till now have not proper medical facilities.
